# Build Java Project by Apache ANT
Author: HBF  
Date: 2021-08-31 (update)  

## About this Apache Ant projct

This project is to demonstrate Apache Ant. [Apache Ant](https://ant.apache.org/) is a Java library and command-line tool to build, test and run Java applications. Ant can also be used effectively to build non Java applications, e.g., C or C++ applications similar to C build tool make. Ant can be used to do procedures of targets and tasks. Ant procedure is commonly described in the build.xml file.

Do the following:

1. Open and read the Ant project file build.xml
2. Right click build.xml -> Run As -> Ant Build (second) -> check the target to build, run or check apply and run. For example, check the jar target, and run, it will create the runnable jar in the jar folder (refresh the project to see).
3. Right click build.xml -> Run As -> Ant Build (first), run the applied/selected target. 
4. Run Ant by command in CLI, or by shell script. Open a cmd console, cd to the root directory of this project, where the build.xml file is stored. An Ant command has format:  ant target (or a list of targets).  For example, 

```
ant clean
ant clean compile
ant clean jar
ant clean run
ant main
```

As we see, the Ant is similar to that of the make tool for C programming. It brings the convenience to Java programming. 


## Doxygen for code documentation

Doxygen is the de facto standard tool for generating documentation from annotated C/C++ sources, but it also supports other popular programming languages such as C, Objective-C, C#, PHP, Java, Python, IDL (Corba, Microsoft, and UNO/OpenOffice flavors), Fortran, VHDL, Tcl, and to some extent D.

1. Open and read ICalculator.java, Calculator.java, and MyCalculator.java for the example of code documentation. 
2. Open doxygen configuration file ECJunitLog.doxyfile with doxygen editor, check the configuration setting.
3. From @ dropdown menu, choose Doxyfile, select ECJunitLog.doxyfile, it will generate the html documentation of the project by retrieving the comments in the source code. The generated files are put in html folder of the project. 
4. Open the html/index.html with a browser, negative around to see what it looks like. You will find the diagram showing the class hierarchy from the page mainpage->Classes->Class Hierarchy. The diagrams in the html documents are automatically generated by Graphviz and Doxygen. 


 


